There is a lot of written about
what a leader is, especially about
the characteristics that a leader
must have and it is said that
if he has to have empathy, communication
ability, well many other
things.
We will now define
what we think is
a leader.
With what purpose?
We must understand what
is a leader and what
is not a leader.
And as we define what a leader
is, we will identify
what are the main characteristics,
competencies or
knowledge a person
must have to become
a leader.
And we'll also incorporate a concept
that's important to understand
and is the difference between being
a leader or being a manager.
A leader has to have certain
characteristics of a manager, but
a manager does not have to
be a leader.
Being a leader is something more ambitious
and there are millions of managers
in the world and then what we're
going to do is the following,
let's define what a leader
is from what a leader has
to do or has to be able to do.
A leader must have a
vision, a leader must have
the ability to motivate
and inspire others to
commit to that vision,
a leader must be able
to manage that project
to that vision and finally
a leader must be able
to manage teams and
people, get the most
out of those people.
So here we already make the
distinction between leader and manager,
a manager is a person who is good
at points three and four, knows
how to manage projects and knows
how to manage people, after
all what he knows is how to
manage resources to goals,
that is a manager.
And a leader has to start from there and,
of course, sometimes when it comes
to leadership in many cases it is only
about the fourth point, it is about
the topic of the relationship
between people, that you are
credible, reliable, empathic, etc.
Let's go one by one, the first
thing we said to be a leader
you have to have a vision.
All from the vision, it's hard
to define Elon Musk's vision in 2003
or 2002 or something like that the
growth of the electric car would
be unstoppable, at that
time it seemed like it was madness
and in fact a lot of people
turned their backs on it.
Mark Zuckerberg had a vision
that social media would
change the way we
relate to people.
We at The Power NBA, I don't want
to compare it with the previous
examples because obviously
we are light years but we also
had a vision and it is that
we could revolutionize the way
we learn about business,
management, marketing, etc.
We have said that a leader has
to have a vision and now what
we have to analyze is what a
person has to have to be able
to have a vision or to be a
visionary.
And here comes the dilemma, something
that is always said to me that
I was asked before in the office, is
the leader born or the leader becomes?
We don't have a response to this,
that is, this is not white
or black, but it's true that
to have a vision there are certain
personal traits that help.
Basically there are some personality
types for which it's easier to
be a visionary and we've studied
it at The Power NBA.
One of the perspectives from which
a personality is analyzed is that
you are intuitive or sensory
or sensitive.
Intuitive people are people
who naturally work their head
by looking at the photo from
above, have more strategic
vision, analyze patterns,
identify opportunities,
go to the bottom of things,
etc.
These are the intuitive people and
the more sensitive or sensory
people are more tied to the senses,
they are more tied to the day-
to-day.
For some things, for some professions,
for some functions it is
better to be sensitive, sensory
and for some things it is better
to be intuitive.
And to be a leader and to be a visionary
it's best to be intuitive and
it's proven.
And the great leaders, all in
the personality are INTJs, good
models, types of personality
in which they have very developed
intuition.
So, to the question of whether it
is born or made, for now the
answer is that we are somewhat conditioned.
There is one part that is innate.
However, and I also want to make
it clear because it's something
we've said many times, knowledge
helps.
That is, when you are able to do a
very good analysis of your environment,
when you understand the situation very
well, when you have incorporated
into your knowledge the models that
help to innovate, etc., such
as the Blue Ocean strategy, for
example, or tools that we
have seen, many such as the
Business Model Canvas, for example,
when you have analyzed cases
of success, failure, when
you have enriched your mind in
this way, it is easier that you
are a visionary, it is easier
that you identify an opportunity
that ends up becoming
a vision.
Now, we go to the second of the points.
A leader must be able,
in addition to having a vision,
to be able to inspire
other people to make
promises with that vision.
So that others can buy that
view.
And here we'll analyze, well,
and what's needed to be able
to do that?
And I would summarize it in one word,
you have to be a good seller.
What does a good seller have?
Well, but a good real seller, because
he is a person who is credible, in
whom others trust, because
he has shown that he is reliable,
that he has knowledge, that he is
a reference for others in something,
in that in particular.
A good salesman has enough
empathy to identify what other
people want, what their goals
are, and align those goals
with that vision, and so on.
Therefore, a leader, in addition
to having a vision, has to be a
good seller to convince other
people and that they
commit to that vision he has
had.
And I'm going to give you a
terrifying example, but it's an
example that can help us illustrate
this ability of a person who got
millions to share their
vision, and it's Hitler.
Hitler had a vision of how he
wanted the world to look,
horrible, but still he managed
to get millions of people
committed to that vision.
We have already seen that the leader
has to have a vision, he has
to be able to get other people
to commit to it, to align the
efforts of other people with
the vision, and now we enter the
roles or characteristics
of manager, of manager.
A leader, in addition, has to be able to
manage the resources with which it counts,
which are some deadlines, which are some
of the most important.
Sometimes the scarce resources
are usually money, resources
are the people you count on,
the context in which they are,
the barriers you will encounter,
are the ingredients you
count on to your vision.
A leader, in addition, has to be
good at this, has to be a good
manager.
This is what is learned.
In project management there
are methodologies that
help us manage resources
to the goals.
You will learn to define the KPIs,
which are the metrics we will use
to see if we are on the right track
or not, to identify the tactics
or the more tactical goals,
to define deadlines, resources,
etc.
How to organize resources?
Well, all that is project management
and, as I say, it's learning.
There are methodologies, it is a matter of studying them.
We will share some.
And finally, the fourth of a
leader's characteristics or functions
is that he has to be able to
get the most out of the people
or those teams he has, which
is basically his most valuable
resource.
And, as I said, sometimes, when we
talk about leadership, we only talk
about this fourth point, what happens
is that we have made a more
ambitious definition of leadership.
In what consists this?
Well, you have to be able to identify
if your people have the knowledge
or skills enough for if
you will not have to train them,
you will have to empathize
with them, you will have to be
transparent, you will have to
give them all the support of the
world, that this is what we refer
to with service leadership,
that we will talk about it.
You can learn here too.
Here there are also many
skills that are learned, which
is basically management of teams.
There are methodologies that
will help us manage people
to get the most out of them,
so that teamwork is more
efficient.
So, as we have seen, what is
a leader and what is not a leader?
A leader is a person who is
able to have a vision, for which
there are certain innate skills
or traits that will help you,
but experience and knowledge
also counts.
It's easier to be a visionary,
identify opportunities when
you've acquired enough knowledge.
You have to be a good salesman
because you have to get other
people to commit to your vision
and you have to be a good
manager.
What is this concrete in?
Well, then in that you have to
be able to get the most of the
resources you have.
You have to know how to plan,
manage the project and finally you
have to be able to get the most out
of the people that are your most
valuable resource.